# Diversity and Inclusion

Although gender balance in the workplace has evened steadily in the last century, the proportion of women in technology fields has actually regressed. Women in tech don’t just earn less than their male counterparts in dollars, but in shares as well. According to a study released by software platform Carta, which found that women in Silicon Valley not only earn less than their male counterparts, but are awarded far less equity as well. According to the readings, this can be attributed partly to the development of computer games that were more male focused. The people in Silicon Valley help to create the products that will influence our culture, economics and our way of communicating. 
It stands to reason that women majoring in tech fields would increase proportional to the rise in overall college enrollment numbers. But that has not been the case. The number of women getting degrees in computer science grew steadily until the mid-eighties, then dropped over the next 25 years, according to the National Science Foundation. Cultural expectations seem to play a large role in this persistent gap. 
Diversity’ and ‘inclusion’ are buzzwords used to hide unpleasant realities
In simple language, what does it mean to have “diversity” and “inclusion” in a tech company? More often “diversity” is used to mean that racial and gender breakdowns of any given company reflect the racial and gender breakdown of the United States. “Inclusion” tends to mean that those of all backgrounds feel as though they are a part of the company’s community — they are empowered to speak freely, and when they do their words are respected.
The existence of diversity does not imply the existence of equity or fair treatment.
The problem with these two terms is that they show tech companies are aware their workforces do not reflect the populations they aim to profit off of with their products. 
Diversity of employees simply means a range of different people — the word itself does not speak to the experience or benefits such different people will receive. Inclusion is a word rarely defined in specific terms from tech companies. The issue with the word “inclusion” used in tech companies to mean that all people are able to participate fully and equally is that it sets up an “us vs. them” mentality. Who needs to be included and who is doing the including? Who is gatekeeping the space of inclusion to watch who is let in?
Regardless of how one feels about the politics of diversity, the economics of it are hard to argue against. There is plenty of research that shows gender and racially diverse organizations report above-average profitability compared to their peers. A diversity report from Intel estimates that the additional revenue in the tech sector as a result of achieving representational racial diversity could be a minimum of $300 billion annually; achieving representational gender diversity in leadership could bring a minimum of $320 billion annually. These are conservative estimates — a study from the Boston Consulting Group shows the innovation coming from companies with more diverse management teams results in a 19% higher revenue.
